VERONIQUE: There was always a “before” and “after.”
Not before and after migration – at least, not exactly.
Something else shaped these two worlds that my mother moved between.
I couldn’t follow her – but sometimes, when the door was ajar, I could peer
through. From a young age, I was pulled towards the places
where reality shows its cracks, its seams.
At every opening, I strained my ears, listening for snatches of the other side.
Sometimes, this sense of not fully being “here” was an electric charge,
an incantation, a miraculous melting away of selfhood.
Sometimes, it was a riptide, which hooked my limbs and sent me spinning into the
dark. I couldn’t follow her, so I went somewhere else.
Still, when I lifted the escape hatch, or slipped between the trees,
part of me searched for the sweep of her shadow,
the flicker of her footfalls, the whisper of her breath.